# front-newtonx

This is a front-end list application that allows the user to dynamically create lists and add/delete items from any of the existing lists.  I've build this using React.  Originally, I tried to maintain list title state in App and list item state in the child component to App (List), but the list items did not stay associated properly with their respective list names.  Instead, I lifted most state up to the root level (App) and that solved the problem.  The basic component hierarchy looks like this: App ---> List ---> Item as that's what made the most sense given the way that lists and items would scale.  I've included a picture to outline this project's architecture here: root/project_architecture.png.  Here is the deployed site: https://bnreine-front-newtonx.herokuapp.com/.  Start by adding your first list title.  From here, you'll see the new list with an input box/submit button to add items to that list.  As you add items, you'll see them in the list along with a button to delete that item.  You may delete any item or entire list at any time.  Add as many lists and items within each list as you'd like.

If I had one thousand lists each with one hundred items, I would have to spend O(n) time finding the correct list to delete as well as the correct item to delete since I need to search through the array.  I could improve time to O(1) by storing lists and items in a nested hash table.  Regarding space usage, react doesn't scale so well to super large systems because it creates copies of data structures to maintain deterministic flow of data (virtual dom and immutability).  I haven't used Angular 2, but I've heard it handles large systems better.  

I decided to use React because I'm familiar with it, but it's also renowned for being super fast.  At somewhat smaller data sizes (mentioned earlier), react is fast because it only re-renders differences in the calculated virtual dom.

Regarding testing: I didn't have time to implement method testing on the front end project.  Had I more time, I would have looked into Mocha for front-end testing and then set requirements for all the methods in the three different components that I'm using.
